SOURCE: https://www.jobbank.gc.ca/trend-analysis
SCRAPED: 2026-07-08

Labour market information - Explore the market - Job Bank
Skip to search
Previous
Pause
Next
Apply and get feedback in 30 days only with Job Bank
Find a job as a young Canadian
Sign up today for a Job Bank Plus account to make applying easier
Apply and get feedback in 30 days only with Job Bank
With a Job Bank Plus account, you get updates on the status of your application within 30 days of applying. Find out if your application was retained or not, or if the job was filled or has expired.
Start now
Find a job as a young Canadian
Thousands of summer jobs are now available across the country for young Canadians. Don’t miss out!
Search Canada Summer Jobs
Sign up today for a Job Bank Plus account to make applying easier
Apply in one click and get matched with employers with a Job Bank Plus account. Sign up for free to customize your preferences, save jobs and track your activity.
Sign up
Labour market information
Explore the market
Explore the market
By occupation
By wages
By outlooks
Learn more about an occupation you are interested in: wages, outlooks, education, skills needed and so much more.
Job title
Location
Search
Compare how much you could make in different parts of the country or between occupations.
Search by
Job title
City or postal code
Job title
Search
City or postal code
Search
Discover the employment prospects for your dream job across Canada, or compare different occupations.
Search by
Job title
City or postal code
Job title
Search
City or postal code
Search
The Canadian labour market by
the numbers
Unemployment rate
6.6 %
decrease
Working population
22,603,900
increase
Average weekly earnings
$1,345.79
increase
Job vacancies
506,730
increase
Need a snapshot of current labour market conditions near you? Every month, we summarize key facts and metrics from various sources to give you an accurate look at the state of the labour market in your province or territory.
Browse snapshots
Find out how labour market information can help you
Labour market information includes all sorts of data and statistics that make up a picture of key trends, opportunities, and challenges in the employment landscape.
Whether you’re looking for work, planning your education and career or recruiting for your business, labour market information can help you make the right choices. Being aware of the latest developments in the labour market and understanding how they could affect you allows you to prepare for every eventuality.
Learn about an occupation
Research an occupation in a specific location to find out what the job is all about and understand its reality in the workplace.
With our job profiles, you can see what duties are involved, the typical hourly wages, what skills and education are required, and whether there will be jobs in this field over the next few years.
Browse job profiles
Take the pulse of an industry
Understand the factors that influence a specific industry or economic field, and how they translate at the occupational level across Canada.
Wage reports
Information about wages can help you decide what regions offer the highest pay in your field, negotiate your salary, or find the right amount needed to attract qualified candidates for your business.
Our wage reports allow you to compare the typical low, median and high wages for specific occupations in different parts of the country. We update these reports on a yearly basis.
Browse wage reports
Outlook reports
Employment outlooks, also known as job prospects, refer to the probability of future growth for an occupation. Occupations with good outlooks are easier for job seekers to find, offer a high potential for professional development and will still be in demand several years from now. On the other hand, these occupations may be harder for employers to fill.
You can browse our outlook reports to compare the job prospects for a particular occupation in different parts of the country. We update these reports on a yearly basis, and they reflect the probability of growth over the next 3 years.
Browse outlook reports
Sectoral profiles
Take stock of the challenges and opportunities for key industries in your area.
With our sectoral profiles, you can learn about the history and the outlook for a specific industry in your province or territory, compare the growth of different sub-sectors within a that industry, and review significant demographic characteristics of the workforce. We update these profiles on a yearly basis
Browse sectoral profiles
See the big picture
Take a step back to consider the wider context. Labour demand and supply statistics can help you find out where you might most likely find work, or plan how to meet your business needs.
Browse through news articles about job creation and layoffs in your industry or region. We update these news on a weekly basis.
Job market snapshots
Find out how the labour market evolved in your province or territory over the past month.
With our job market snapshots, you can get key facts and metrics such as the total working population and unemployment rate, increases or decreases in the number of jobs in specific industries, and other statistics for different economic regions. We update these snapshots on a monthly basis.
Browse job market snapshots
Economic scans
Get in-depth look into economic trends that may have an impact on the local labour market over the next few years.
You can read our economic scans to review the state of the labour market and economic conditions in your province or territory over the past year, and learn about potential risks and opportunities for the future. We update these reports on a yearly basis.
Browse economic scans
Get the latest news
Stay informed about what’s happening in the labour market. Keeping up with the latest developments in the labour market is key to planning your next job search or recruitment move.
Browse through news articles about job creation and layoffs in your industry or region. We update these news on a weekly basis.
Search all news
Page details
Report a problem or mistake on this page
Date modified:
2026-06-02